---
layout: default
---

# Agora Nomic

<div class="row" markdown="1">

<div class="col-md-6" markdown="1">

## Welcome to Agora

Agora is a nomic - a game of rule change, debate, ever-changing
gameplay, and scams - played by email. The rules of the game are part of
the game, and ALL of them are subject to potential change. This makes it
difficult to describe Agora, but it also means that gameplay stays fresh
based on what players are interested in at the time.

Some elements tend to stay the same. Changes to rules are proposed by
any player and voted on by all players. Some players, known as Officers,
keep track of the rules and other elements of the game. Commonly, there
are currencies or assets to buy, sell, and trade.

Players can win by a variety of ways, but winning is simply recorded on
the Scroll of Agora and gameplay continues. Winning is usually tied to a
"sub-game", an activity played within Agora. In the past this has
included variants of Diplomacy, Go, and Mao - as well as many games of
our own design.

Crafty and mischievous players may enjoy the time-honored tradition of
scamming. Since rules change frequently, loopholes often appear. Clever
scammers use these loopholes to secure wins for themselves. There is,
however, an art to this: it's considered impolite to do so in a way that
prevents others from having fun. The most elegant scams secure a win and
then quickly clean up the mess.

## Why Agora?

At **27 years old**, Agora is the longest running nomic. It has also
seen around **200 players** come and go, with an average of 15-20 at
any given time. Some players have been playing for more than a decade.
Agora has been around for a long time, and plans to stay.

Agora is egalitarian. The rules shy away from giving power to
experienced players; long participation and notable contributions are
rewarded with official recognition, not special privilege. Players are
able to participate from the moment they join, and all voices are
respected in all discussions. As a symbol of its idealism (and a quirk
of the time and place it originates from) Agora uses the Spivak pronoun
system (e/em/eir/eirs) for all persons.

History and idealism aside, Agora is a game, and we try to have fun
together. It's also a warm and supportive community, consisting of both
people who have been around for years and people who just joined. If
this sounds like your idea of a good time, please come join us!
  
</div>

<div class="col-md-6" markdown="1"> 

## Thinking of playing?
As of **December 2020**, there are **17 active players**. We're always
looking for more!

Play happens across five mailing lists. Please subscribe to all of them:

* [agora-business](http://www.agoranomic.org/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/agora-business)
  ([public
  archives](http://www.mail-archive.com/agora-business@agoranomic.org/info.html))
  is the main forum used for the vast majority of game actions, such
  as voting on proposals and new players registering;

* [agora-official](http://www.agoranomic.org/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/agora-official)
  ([public
  archives](http://www.mail-archive.com/agora-official@agoranomic.org/info.html))
  is used for official reports mandated by the rules, like proposal
  distributions and reports of the rules and list of players, and is a
  good place to check on the current state of the game;

* [agora-discussion](http://www.agoranomic.org/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/agora-discussion)
  ([public
  archives](http://www.mail-archive.com/agora-discussion@agoranomic.org/info.html))
  is the officially supported mailing list for discussion about the
  game and things that go on there, although it cannot be used for
  game actions (posting them to agora-discussion by mistake is quite
  common!).
  
* [gio](https://agoranomic.groups.io/g/main) is the current primary
  backup list. It is a public list that players may use to do actions
  (especially if they're trying to be sneaky). It is mainly used if the
  main lists are down for maintenance.
  
* [tue](http://listserver.tue.nl/mailman/listinfo/agora) normally
  receives no messages. It is an older backup list, now considered
  secondary to gio. Still, it is public and actions *could* be taken
  there on ocassion.
 
For more informal discussion, there is also an official IRC channel,
[##nomic on freenode.net](irc:irc.freenode.net/##nomic) ([web
access](http://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=%23%23nomic)), where
several players of Agora (and other nomics) tend to gather.
      
Although many players prefer to watch for a while rather than playing
(with Agora having attracted quite a sizeable list of "Watchers", who
sometimes join in discussion about the game despite not playing), it's
entirely possible to jump right in and start playing.  Before joining,
you should probably read the rules; the most recent rulesets can
normally be found in the agora-official archives, or
[online](/ruleset/flr.txt).  Probably, you can join by simply sending
a message to agora-business stating that you register, although as
always in nomic, the rules are subject to change.

</div>

</div>
